# **PSET4: Identification of differential gene expression levels between common rice and sea rice SR86 to engineer high yielding salt-tolerant rice**
# **Overview**
This repo is a tutorial for multiple figures for my 440 Project and PSET 4. In this repo, you will find the code writted to produce bar plots that 
display differential gene expression between common rice grown in fresh water and salt water tolerant rice grown in salt water for specific genes of interest.
The bar plots graph FPKM across the three conditions and compute significance using bonferroni corrected t tests. All code was written by Blythe Irwin.
# **Data**
The FPKM data for common rice grown in fresh water and salt water tolerant rice grown in salt water is from Chen et al. (2017). FPKM stands for fragments per 
kilobase of exon per million mapped fragments. This data was generated by sequencing the traanscriptome and mapping the reads to transcripts. The data was 
downloaded from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE102152.

Chen, R., Cheng, Y., Han, S. et al. Whole genome sequencing and comparative transcriptome analysis of a novel seawater adapted, salt-resistant rice cultivar 
– sea rice 86. BMC Genomics 18, 655 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12864-017-4037-3
# **Folder Structure**
In this repo, there are three folders. The first folder, "data" contains the FPKM values. The second folder, "figures" contains the bar plots outputted by 
the analysis. The third folder, "python_code" contains the python code used to create the figures.
# **Installation**
To run the code to reproduce my figures, first download the repo, with the python_code, data, and figure folders. In the /python_code folder should be a 
python file, "20_440_HW4_Blythe_Irwin.py". Run the code with the command "python 20_440_HW4_Blythe_Irwin.py" in terminal. This should output multiple bar plots.
```
python 20_440_HW4_Blythe_Irwin.py
```
# **Packages Needed**
```
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
from scipy import stats
from statannot import add_stat_annotation
import seaborn as sns
```
